DOCS-2849 Add Mobile Vitals Doc Page + Screenshots (#789)
DataDog/dd-sdk-android: docs/rum_mobile_vitals.md

## Overview

> Real User Monitoring offers Mobile Vitals, a set of metrics based on [Android Vitals][1] that can help you compute insights about your mobile application's responsiveness, stability, and resource consumption. 

Author: ```suggestion
Real User Monitoring offers Mobile Vitals, a set of metrics inspired by [Android Vitals][1], that can help you compute insights about your mobile application's responsiveness, stability, and resource consumption. 
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/android/mobile_vitals.png" alt="Mobile Vitals in the RUM Explorer" style="width:70%;">}}

> Mobile vitals appear in your application's **Overview** tab and in the side panel under **Performance** > **Event Timings and Mobile Vitals** when you click on an individual view in the [RUM Explorer][3]. Click on a graph in **Mobile Vitals** to apply a filter by version or examine filtered sessions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile vitals appear in your application's **Overview** tab and in the side panel under **Performance** > **Event Timings and Mobile Vitals** when you click on an individual view in the [RUM Explorer][3]. Click on a graph in **Mobile Vitals** to apply a filter by version or examine filtered sessions. 
```

> {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/android/refresh_rate_and_mobile_vitals.png" alt="Mobile Vitals in the RUM Explorer" style="width:70%;">}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/android/refresh_rate_and_mobile_vitals.png" alt="Event Timings and Mobile Vitals" style="width:70%;">}}
```

> Mobile vitals include recommended benchmark ranges that correlate directly to your application's user experience. You can see where a metric scores on the range and click **Search Views With Poor Performance** to apply a filter in your search query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile Vitals include recommended benchmark ranges that correlate directly to your application's user experience. You can see where a metric scores on the range and click **Search Views With Poor Performance** to apply a filter in your search query.
```

|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Slow renders                   | To ensure a smooth, [jank-free][5] user experience, your application should render frames in under 60 seconds. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the application’s [display refresh rate][6] using `@view.refresh_rate_average` and `@view.refresh_rate_min` view attributes. <br /><br />  With slow rendering, you can monitor which views are taking longer than 40, 50, or 60 seconds to render. |

Reviewer 2: Frame should be rendered under 16 ms (or with frequency more than 60 Hz). What we show in mobile vitals is frame rate, kind of in Hz, but these are normalized Hz, so even if device frame rate is 120 Hz, max cap shown will still be 60 Hz. Should we mention normalization thing? cc @xgouchet 

Considering that, the following sentence should be rewritten:

```
With slow rendering, you can monitor which views are taking longer than 40, 50, or 60 seconds to render.
```

We should say something like `which views are taking longer than 16 ms to render`. 40 Hz will be 25 ms, 50 Hz will be 20 ms. But honestly the only value I would mention here is 16ms/60 Hz.

Reviewer 3: Good catch indeed. 
And it might be worth it adding a note along the lines of:
> **Note**: the actual refresh rates are normalized on a 0-60 fps range (e.g.: if your app runs at 100fps on a device capable of rendering 120fps, it will be reported as 50fps in the mobile vitals).

Author: ```suggestion
| Slow renders                   | To ensure a smooth, [jank-free][5] user experience, your application should render frames in under 60 Hz. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the application’s [display refresh rate][6] using `@view.refresh_rate_average` and `@view.refresh_rate_min` view attributes. <br /><br />  With slow rendering, you can monitor which views are taking longer than 16 ms or 60 Hz to render. **Note:** Refresh rates are normalized on a range of zero to 60 fps. For example, if your application runs at 100 fps on a device capable of rendering 120 fps, Datadog reports 50 fps in the Mobile Vitals. |
```

> | Slow renders                   | To ensure a smooth, [jank-free][5] user experience, your application should render frames in under 60 Hz. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the application’s [display refresh rate][6] using `@view.refresh_rate_average` and `@view.refresh_rate_min` view attributes. <br /><br />  With slow rendering, you can monitor which views are taking longer than 16 ms or 60 Hz to render. **Note:** Refresh rates are normalized on a range of zero to 60 fps. For example, if your application runs at 100 fps on a device capable of rendering 120 fps, Datadog reports 50 fps in Mobile Vitals. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Slow renders                   | To ensure a smooth, [jank-free][5] user experience, your application should render frames in under 60 Hz. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the application’s [display refresh rate][6] using `@view.refresh_rate_average` and `@view.refresh_rate_min` view attributes. <br /><br />  With slow rendering, you can monitor which views are taking longer than 16 ms or 60 Hz to render. <br /> **Note:** Refresh rates are normalized on a range of zero to 60 fps. For example, if your application runs at 100 fps on a device capable of rendering 120 fps, Datadog reports 50 fps in Mobile Vitals. |
```

> | Slow renders                   | To ensure a smooth, [jank-free][5] user experience, your application should render frames in under 60 Hz. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the application’s [display refresh rate][6] using `@view.refresh_rate_average` and `@view.refresh_rate_min` view attributes. <br /><br />  With slow rendering, you can monitor which views are taking longer than 16 ms or 60 Hz to render. **Note:** Refresh rates are normalized on a range of zero to 60 fps. For example, if your application runs at 100 fps on a device capable of rendering 120 fps, Datadog reports 50 fps in the Mobile Vitals. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Slow renders                   | To ensure a smooth, [jank-free][5] user experience, your application should render frames in under 60 Hz. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the application’s [display refresh rate][6] using `@view.refresh_rate_average` and `@view.refresh_rate_min` view attributes. <br /><br />  With slow rendering, you can monitor which views are taking longer than 16 ms or 60 Hz to render. **Note:** Refresh rates are normalized on a range of zero to 60 fps. For example, if your application runs at 100 fps on a device capable of rendering 120 fps, Datadog reports 50 fps in Mobile Vitals. |
```

> | Frozen frames                  | Frames that take longer than 700ms to render appear as stuck and unresponsive in your application. These are classified as [frozen frames][7]. <br /><br />  RUM tracks `long task` events with the duration for any task taking longer then 100ms to complete. <br /><br />  With frozen frames, you can monitor which views appear frozen (taking longer than 700ms to render) to your end users and eliminate jank in your application.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: Shall we add a note here that customer can set a custom threshold to replace the default `100ms`? If so they can use the following line in the configuration:
```
val configuration = Configuration.Builder(…)
        // …
        .trackLongTasks(250L) // track tasks longer than 250ms as long tasks
        .build()
```

Author: ```suggestion
| Frozen frames                  | Frames that take longer than 700ms to render appear as stuck and unresponsive in your application. These are classified as [frozen frames][7]. <br /><br />  RUM tracks `long task` events with the duration for any task taking longer then 100ms to complete. <br /><br />  With frozen frames, you can monitor which views appear frozen (taking longer than 700ms to render) to your end users and eliminate jank in your application. <br /> **Note:** To replace the default `100 ms` duration, set a custom threshold in your configuration: <br /> <br><br>val configuration = Configuration.Builder(…)<br>        // …<br>        .trackLongTasks(250L) // track tasks longer than 250ms as long tasks<br>        .build()                         |
```

Reviewer 4: I think this is confusing to add the configuration snippet about changing long task threshold to frozen frames definition - since it might mislead the reader into thinking that they need to override this default value. I say we add this snippet in the long task definition (data_collected) page instead.

Author: Gotcha, what if we add this example in the **Automatically track long tasks** section of [RUM Android Advanced Configuration](https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/advanced_configuration/?tab=kotlin)?

Reviewer 4: Good idea!

> | Application not responding     | When the UI thread of an application is blocked for more than 5 seconds, an `Application Not Responding` ([ANR][8]) error triggers. If the application is in the foreground, the system displays a dialog modal to the user, allowing them to force quit the application. <br /><br />   RUM tracks the ANR rate over time and captures the entire error report when an ANR error is encountered.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: > RUM tracks the ANR rate over time and 

ANR are not rates but an event that can occur. Instead we might say : 
> RUM tracks ANR occurrences and captures the entire stack trace blocking the main thread when an ANR is encountered

Author: ```suggestion
| Application not responding     | When the UI thread of an application is blocked for more than 5 seconds, an `Application Not Responding` ([ANR][8]) error triggers. If the application is in the foreground, the system displays a dialog modal to the user, allowing them to force quit the application. <br /><br />   RUM tracks ANR occurrences and captures the entire stack trace that blocks the main thread when it encounters an ANR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
```

| Crash-free sessions by version | An [application crash][9] is reported due to an unexpected exit in the application typically caused by an unhandled exception or signal. Crash-free user sessions in your application directly correspond to  your end user’s experience and overall satisfaction. <br /><br />   RUM tracks complete crash reports and presents trends over time with [Error Tracking][10]. <br /><br />  With crash-free sessions, you can stay up to speed on industry benchmarks and ensure that your application is ranked highly on the Google Play Store.                                                                                                 |

> | CPU ticks per second           | High CPU usage impacts the [battery life][11] on your users’ devices and resource consumption.  <br /><br />  RUM tracks CPU ticks per second for each view and the CPU utilization over the course of a session. The recommended range is <40 for good and <60 for moderate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CPU ticks per second           | High CPU usage impacts the [battery life][11] on your users’ devices.  <br /><br />  RUM tracks CPU ticks per second for each view and the CPU utilization over the course of a session. The recommended range is <40 for good and <60 for moderate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

the "and resource consumption" just seems awkward there

> | Memory utilization             | High memory usage can lead to [OutOfMemoryError][12], which causes the application to crash and creates a  poor user experience. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the amount of physical memory used by your application in bytes for each view, over the course of a session. The recommended range is <200MB for good and <40MB for moderate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 2: shouldn't it be opposite? less memory is better. Maybe it is meant to be `400MB`, not `40`?

Reviewer 3: Yes it should be 400 instead of 40

Author: ```suggestion
| Memory utilization             | High memory usage can lead to [OutOfMemoryError][12], which causes the application to crash and creates a  poor user experience. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the amount of physical memory used by your application in bytes for each view, over the course of a session. The recommended range is <200MB for good and <400MB for moderate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

> | Memory utilization             | High memory usage can lead to [OutOfMemoryError][12], which causes the application to crash and creates a  poor user experience. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the amount of physical memory used by your application in bytes for each view, over the course of a session. The recommended range is <200MB for good and <400MB for moderate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Memory utilization             | High memory usage can lead to [OutOfMemoryError][12], which causes the application to crash and creates a poor user experience. <br /><br />  RUM tracks the amount of physical memory used by your application in bytes for each view, over the course of a session. The recommended range is <200MB for good and <400MB for moderate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/vitals

> [2]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-android/alai97/android-monitoring-mobile-vitals/docs/images/mobile_vitals.png

Reviewer 4: changed the image - can you review if it is okay @alai97 ?

Author: Can you send me the image on Slack @priyanshi-gupta? I don't see an updated image on here.

[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/explorer

> [4]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-android/alai97/android-monitoring-mobile-vitals/docs/images/refresh_rate_and_mobile_vitals.png

Reviewer 4: Can we reduce the size of this image to fit in line with the text content @alai97?
